https://github.com/moppimies/cybermooc
Using Django and OWASP 2021 list.


Pinpointing of the flaw to at last because, location of the problem may change
username:user
password: passwordd123
admin:admin
password:passwordd123

Broken access control, samalla vaikka injecetion

FLAW 1, A03:2021 – Injection:
Python-file "views.py" in the function vote. https://github.com/moppimies/CyberMOOCProject/blob/55110b549785b0a0e9084708f77fd96ea8d5fc40/polls/views.py#L32

I made a function which queries the database without any user input sanitazitation. User could potentially inject malicious query by injecting malicious code in query. If user could enter custom question_id, user could modify the whole query.
Injection is listed as a third most common security risk in 2021 OWASP top 10 web application security risks. In worst case scenario attacker can modify data in the database or get sensitive data such as names, passwords, emails, social security numbers, street adresses etc.
In this case I present unsafe SQL query which is prone to injections. SQL queries which are prone to injection are unsanitazed and easily injectable by a malicous user. 

The fix is provided in the code. It is not commented out. The fix is rather simple because it uses django models which are tested and safe for the most part.


FLAW 2: CSRF-token missing:
Python file "settings.py" where the django csrf middleware is imported and html file detail.html. "github line here"

Although not mentioned in the OWASP 2021 top 10 web application security risks it is a potentially very hazardous. CSRF was one of the main topics handled in the course. Modern web frameworks typically contains CSRF-token validation when the state of the website changes, usually the state changes happen when the POST-method is used.
In this example attacker could possibly vote for the blog chosen by the attacker. 

Like with previous flaw there is built-in methods and middlewares in django which provide fix for the problem. Django.middleware.csrf imported in settings.py does just that which allows user to use csrf-tokens easily.


FLAW 3: A09 - Security Logging and Monitoring Failures
Project flaw is in polls/views.py/vote function.

The polls apps idea is to test that user is logged in before he can vote. The flaw is present if there is "@login_required" decorator. This is a security flaw because non-authorizated users can vote which not the idea of app. Attacker could use a script or a botnet of multiple computers inorder to influnce the result of the poll.

Fix is rather simple with Django because there is built in authentication system. Especially django.contrib.auth library contains many useful tools to authenticate users. Using these still require some version management from the site host, so that the outdated/flawrd libraries don't go to production.


FLAW 4: Security misconfiguration A05-2021:

Flaw is present in seittisivut/settings.py if AUTH_PASSWORD_VALIDATORS is not present.


FLAW 5: A02 2021 Cryptographic Failure 
Flaw is present in seittisivut/settings.py if secret_key is leaked to github or any other public page. 
In this particular case it is in public github page. 

description of flaw 5...

In this case it could be fixed by making a .gitignore in which we could specify which files or directories we don't want in our public github. Other thing is to make project repositary private.